So what are our alternatives to the managed workflow.
One alternative is to use the React Native Seelye.
You can learn about this on the official React Native page.
If you whiz it that you can simply google for weak native to find it and there if you click on get started
you actually are greeted with Q Different ways of getting started and the preselected ways to use the
explicit lie.
It is the approach we used.
Right.
So there is nothing too fancy about this this gives you to react native app using Expo it's what we
used in this course.
You can also click however on the React Native seal ie quick start.
And now here you first of all need to set your system up in a certain way and then you can install a
separate package that React Native seal ie which should now need to create a project and to run it and
so on now important here you'll find the detailed installation structures for different operating systems
and apps you want to build.
Now be aware that on Windows as it says here you can't build I was apps the same on Linux you can only
build Android apps there and you'll find installation structures if you select these specific options
on Mac OS you can build.
I was an android and you also will need to follow through these installation instructions.
Now I'll not do this in detail here because you'll find them all written here of course if you want
to follow along.
In the end you will need to install a couple of packages not NPM packages but system wide packages and
the exact installation process differs regarding on which platform you're running on.
You will need to install Android Studio or X code so x code for ISIS apps Android Studio for Android
apps and you need to install that now.
Previously it was optional.
I just did it to get a simulator.
Now you need it because now these tools will be used to build your app.
Previously that was not required because the expo wrapper basically kind of read our code and hosted
it and you can build a standalone app with Expo and you managed workflow as well.
Their dead will happen in the cloud.
Now that all happens locally you will need to install Android Studio ins on install it with all the
options you find here.
Now you also no matter for which platform you're working you also need to install the react native seal.
I you can do this in your normal command prompt or terminal on mac or linux you might need to add sudo
in front of this to get the right permissions and this will now globally install do you react native
Seelye.
For Dad you also need node j s installed because it is uses NPM which is no its package manager.
So make sure you have that as well.
Now with the react native seal I installed.
We can start creating a project totally without expo in 4 dead I'll create a brand new project and I
selected a folder for that by running react native in it.
And now any name of your choice for example are n
without expo for the name it's important that it's written like this.
No dashes or underscores in there but just one word.
So our end without Expo the name all choose and this will now create a brand new react native project
using the react native Seelye in this place where you ran this command and it will give you this new
folder which contains this new rec native project.
Now important again.
You now need to have Android stood you and X code installed and configured as mentioned in the official
docs here.
Otherwise what I'm about to show you will now not work.
You need that installed because now these tools will be leveraged Spidey react native seal to build
and run your app all those spin ups some emulators or simulators can be the same ones used before in
the course but you need to have those running so that we can see our running react native app there.
So now let's wait for it is setup to finish here and once this is done and this process can take a while
you can follow the instructions here too and then run your app let me navigate into this newly created
folder here.
And run react native run.
IOW for example to run it on the Iaw simulator which I got now this behind the scenes uses x code to
built this app.
It does not use Expo anymore you could uninstall the expo client here you can uninstall the Expos Seelye
from your system.
This does not leverage expo at all it just uses x code behind the scenes to build your app.
So does native Apple development tool sleds await for this bill to finish and the first time you built
this.
This takes a bit longer.
Subsequent rebuilds will be faster so let's wait for this to finish.
Now for all this build process a new tab will be opened or a new window in your terminal.
Keep that process running and also keep the build process running of course.
Don't quit this.
So keep both these processes up and running here and now it is install the app on the.
In this case simulator if you had a real device connected it would install it there and it launches
the app there and therefore here.
They actually created a new simulator here for me.
Doesn't matter though it now launches the app here in this simulator again for the first launched is
now download steam built app on this device basically and you have some nice development features there
to remote debugging can be enabled so you've got all these nice features in here as well.
That's not Expo exclusive at this first launch will take a bit longer as mentioned.
So let's wait for this download to finish here so that the app does launch and here it's coming up not
the exact start screen you're seeing here.
That might differ over time because that's just the starting code you get in the project which will
have a look at in a second but this is now the app a native app without Expo otherwise the same running
on ISIS guess we can also run it on Android and for dead this process which now finished can be cleared.
The other ones should be kept running.
That's your development server that talks to the bison which watches for file changes and pushes new
code to the device.
So what you know from expo that works here as well so keep the other process running but now we can
also run React Native run Android to also built the app for Android and leverage that same server to
then also build and push the Android app to the android emulator and then see that as well.
So let's wait for this to finish.
Again this first build will take longer as subsequent reloads will be much faster.
This build process now leverages Android Studio which you all need to have installed and configured
as described in the official box and therefore it is not all of course works totally without Expo it
just uses Android Studio.
Now this all launches the Android app here on my android emulator justice before this initial launch
can can take a short while.
Now it's connecting to those development server what you deal for here of course.
All this should keep on running not only wants to builds this bundle but all the time so that up on
changes in your files you get a life rebuild and once this is done let's see the finished app run on
Android.
Now let's have a look at the code that is responsible for that.
Does Dad now look totally different than what we saw thus far.
For that I loaded the project here again with visual pseudocode so the same set up as before and what
you see looks a bit different but mostly we have a bunch of different configuration files.
Fair enough but that doesn't really change the way we write our code.
Very important we got an android and an ISIS folder.
We didn't have that before.
Those folders and on windows by the way Linux you don't have IOW you only have Android there.
But those folders contained a real native app projects which are built with the help of Android Studio
and ex code and your code gets kind of built into that.
You could say react native does all that for you the wrecked native sea lion process but if we have
a look at the concrete code in the app chips fall well that is just what we used in this course.
Right there we have a couple of imports and some additional lending which is showing you some some warnings
here regarding the code style.
These are not actual errors just that I should use double quotes instead of single quotes.
Yeah some recommendation I don't care about here but if you have a look at what's getting imported here
react save area of use style sheet scroll view a view text.
These are all things we already worked with so we have the normal components we already worked with.
And of course we do because what I said brought this chorus react native is react native expo is a thin
wrapper around it.
We write the same code we use the same components they get compiled to native widgets that all does
not change when we use Expo.
The only difference is that with Expo we don't have to set up as much.
The build is a bit faster and adding native modules is super easy testing on real devices is super easy.
It's simply easier.
We built the app in the same way though and that's something you can see here as well.
Styles are set up in the same way with Styles he'd create.
That's all just as we did throughout this course.
And that's important for you.
Now one extra thing you'll find here is the index chains fall.
We didn't have dad an expo that kind of us the basic configuration file that launches your app you could
say that makes sure that this app component gets rendered to the screen.
That's something Expo did for you in the react native Expo app but other than that it's really just
the same and you would build an app in the same way.